---
layout: post
title: "About Me"
author: "Steven Gotzler"
categories: about
tags: []
image: house-of-mirrors.JPG
---
I'm Steven Gotzler a cultural studies scholar and English instructor living in Pittsburgh, PA.

Originally from California, I grew up in the high Mojave desert just east of the Sierra Nevadas near Death Valley. I attended undergraduate at the University of California at Santa Cruz, where I earned a BA in American Studies with highest honors. After leaving Santa Cruz, I worked as a research assistant at the University of Pittsburgh, before going on to earn an MA in Literary and Cultural Studies in 2012. I then taught as an adjunct instructor at Robert Morris University and the Community College of Allegheny County, and in 2013 began pursuing my PhD at Carnegie Mellon University. Since achieving candidacy in 2016, I have been teaching as a graduate student instructor in the English department while working to complete my dissertation.  

My research explores the intersections of intellectual culture(s), labor, and literature during the 20th century.

I am particularly interested in the history of cultural studies, and exploring the politics of intellectual life and labor in the U.S. and Britain during the immediate postwar period. In this vein, I have related interests in contemporary criticism that addresses the continued ir/relevance of intellectuals today, and digital humanities projects that leverage minimal computing principles to demystify and re-appropriate the platforms and technologies that underwrite our labor processes as intellectual workers in the university. 

I am a founding member of the [Contemporary Marxist Reading Group at CMU](https://cmrg-cmu.org/), and currently serve as a student governing board member for the [Cultural Studies Association (U.S.)](https://culturalstudiesassociation.org).

My research activities have been generously supported by [the A.W. Mellon Foundation](#insert link to AW Mellon website), The University of Victoria, [the University of Southern California and Los Angeles Review of Books](https://thepublishingworkshop.com/), [dSHARP](http://dsharp.library.cmu.edu/).

My writing has been published in venues such as *The Los Angeles Review of Books*, and *Lateral: The Journal of the Cultural Studies Association*. 

For more information about what I'm currently writing please see the [Writing](#insert_link) page.

Find my [full academic CV here](#insert_file), and please see the [Projects](#insert_link) and [Teaching](#insert_link) pages for further details about my research and teaching activities.
