---
layout: post
title: "Projects"
author: "Steven Gotzler"
categories:
tags: []
image: projects.jpg
--- 

I am interested in projects that explore topics in the history of cultural studies, 20th century culture, Marxism, and digital scholarly editing/publishing. 

Interested in collaborating on research? -- [contact me](mailto:sgotzler@andrew.cmu.edu) 

## Current Projects

**The Uses of Culture: Intellectual Labor and the Sources of Cultural Studies in Britain and America, 1945-1964**

My dissertation offers an alternative critical account of the emergence of cultural studies during the long fifties (1945-1964). 
Turning to sources in fiction, visual arts, and the social sciences I investigate the different social uses to which intellectuals
during this period put the idea of culture as a tool for collective action in their work as writers, artists, and academics.
Specifically, I resituate familiar figures like Richard Hoggart, Stuart Hall and Raymond Williams by mapping their uses of culture onto
the contemporaneous labors of novelists like Samuel Selvon and John Braine, and artists like Pauline Boty and the Independent Group
(IG). Drawing on current theoretical debates about the nature and future of work, my project re-describes the historical aspirations of 
cultural studies as a response to the changing conditions of intellectual labor at mid-century. Incorporating alternative sources from 
fiction and art, my account discloses a rich record of cultural experience that, when taken together, dramatize several key 
contradictions around gender, race, and empire that sit at the heart of cultural studies as it developed in the 1950s. My project also 
enlarges our sense of the origins of the field by highlighting the importance of concomitant critical movements such as the rise of 
American and Ethnic Studies in the U.S., reframing cultural studies as a largely transatlantic formation, and moving beyond its putative 
roots in the British new left.

**MARXdown** 

MARXdown is an online digital project developed for the [Contemporary Marxist Reading Group (CMRG)](https://cmrg-cmu.org/) at Carnegie Mellon University using the lightweight markup language Markdown. Designed to support group annotation of key texts for our CMRG, it provides a centralized and accessible online space for ongoing critical engagement between readers and materials related to the study of Marxist theory. This digital reading edition brings together the original English translation from 1887 Marx’s *Capital Vol. 1* with extant scholarly sources to create a multi-layered annotated edition of the text, providing critical reading guides and supplemental historical and sociological data in one easily accessible and user-friendly interface.

Collaborators: Avery J. Wiscomb, Daniel Evans. (ongoing)

- Visit the [project repo](https://github.com/MARXdown/MARXdown.github.io) on GitHub.
- Check Out a Praxis Session we developed on ["Deploying Lightwight Digital Editions in the Community and Classroom"](https://sgotzler.github.io/praxis-session/) for the 17th Annual Conference of the Cultural Studies Association (CSA).

**Keywords in *Cultural Studies*** 

This collaborative digital project utilizes digital tools to explore the history of the journal *Cultural Studies*. The team will be analyzing a full-text corpus of the journal’s entire output since its founding in 1987. Using textual analysis methods for large-scale modeling we will explore new ways of viewing the history of the field through its flagship journal in the U.S.

Collaborators: Ted Striphas, Natalie Suzelis, Scott Weingart, Nathan Carpenter. (ongoing)

**The Frankenstein Variorum**

This project is preparing a new digital variorum edition of the novel Frankenstein. The variorum edition is a digital collation of five distinct versions of the novel produced between 1816 and 1831. With Professor Jon Klancher, Avery J. Wiscomb, and John Quirk, I have been working as a part of the team using the hypothes.is software to generate and manage a set of linked annotations across all 5 versions of the text. 

Collaborators: Jon Klancher, Elisa E. Beshero-Bondar, Matthew Lincoln, Rikk Mulligan, John Quirk, Emma Slayton, Raffaele Viglianti, Scott B. Weingart, Avery J. Wiscomb. (ongoing)

- Visit the [project repo](https://github.com/PghFrankenstein) on GitHub.
- Check out the [project website](https://pghfrankenstein.github.io/Pittsburgh_Frankenstein/)

## Past Projects
 
**The Historical TV Guide / Mapping the Television Mega-Text** 
The Historical TV Guide uses digital tools to gather available textual data sources on television programming in the 1950s drawn from textual sources in online databases, archives and encyclopedias of television programming, much of which no longer exists in watchable form. Originally a distant reading project, entitled "Mapping the Television Mega-Text," we also used computational methods to analyze working-class content on 1950s television. 

Collaborators: Kathleen M. Newman, Daniel J. Evans, Scott B. Weingart, Emma Slayton. (2017-2019)

- Access the [Dataset] on KiltHub (https://kilthub.cmu.edu/s/70162b17c1312e65be50) *#insert DOI*
- Visit the [project repo](https://github.com/sgotzler/megaText) on GitHub.
- For more information check out the [project website](https://sgotzler.github.io/Historical-TV-Guide/), or watch this [short video](#insertlink to Mellon Video).

**The Frankenstein Complex** 
Commemorating the 200th anniversary of the publication of Mary Shelley's *Frankenstein*, "The Frankenstein Complex" demonstrates the continuing relevance of Victor Frankenstein and his creature to contemporary audiences by relating rare university holdings such as the 1818 first edition of the text, and documents in the history of science from pioneering figures such as Luigi Galvani, to CMU's ongoing areas of scientific research including brain-computer interfaces, robotics, the visual arts and artificial intelligence. Examining these areas of contemporary research in light of the novel's much wider cultural legacy, the exhibit locates them within a 'complex' of ideas about the mind, the body, nature, ethical dilemmas, revolutions, and creators of all kinds. Ultimately, the exhibit encourages visitors to better understand how *Frankenstein* plays an important role in shaping our perceptions of technological innovations, and also how we continue to think about ourselves as humans.

Collaborators: Avery J. Wiscomb, John Quirk. (2018)

- Find coverage of the exhibit [here](https://www.cmu.edu/dietrich/english/news/2018/frankenstein-200-posner-center.html)
- *add link to photo gallery* ?

## In Development

**The General Intellect** 

An online academic journal for research on intellectual culture(s), and criticism exploring the continued ir/relevance of the figure of the intellectual within contemporary popular culture, politics, and society.

The journal's title alludes to Marx's concept of "the general intellect": the cumulative body of technological expertise and social knowledge present within the society at any given historical moment. For Marx, this concept signals the historical centrality of machines and their increasing elaboration and proliferation through accelerating processes of technological innovation in design and production. Today, complex computational machines, networked means of communication, and digital modes of cultural production and reproduction permeate and shape the social relations of our everyday lives in profound ways.

*The General Intellect* then, is conceived as an attempt to harness the creative and communicative power of these new technological systems and turn them back upon the regimes of production and social organization which underwrite the regimes of intellectual work today. In doing so, this project hopes to enable not only a reflexive critique of the contemporary intellectual conjuncture, but also, a rigorous re-consideration of the notion of 'the intellectual' itself, across its various historical guises (i.e. "public," "organic," or "traditional"), and through an examination of their roots in the historical processes of the 20th century, and speculations about the possible futures which may take shape as these processes continue to unfold over the course of the 21st. 

To this end, the journal also hopes to meet the unique intellectual challenges of the 21st century by fostering new and diverse methods for displaying scholarly research that utilize minimal computing principles and techniques to support accessibility, sustainability, and reproducibility. 

**Marx on Fire** 

A comparative stylometry analysis of Marx’s *Capital Vol.1* and Dante’s *Inferno* examining their linkages and similarities in terms of "literary structure."

Collaborators: Avery J. Wiscomb 
